We now look at functions in Helm. So we saw how a template and the values.yaml file together
create a valid manifest file. Now what if the values.yaml file didn't have a field set,
that will create a file without that field, the output file, of course, will also not have that
field. So say for example, the repository name isn't set. So this would result in the resulting
manifest file being created without this value. And that in turn would result in the pod failing
to be created. So what we need here is a simple way for our chart to have some default values
that it can fall back on in case the users don't provide anything in their values.yaml file.
So the logic would be if the user provided something in the values or YAML file, then use
that if there wasn't a value provided, then use this default value, like nginx, which and we can
do such a thing using functions. So what are functions? What do we know about functions
already? And we've heard about functions in the programming world. Say for example, we have a
string called Helm, and we want to convert it to uppercase. In the programming world, we have
functions available for it, such as the upper function. And we call upper function and pass
in this string as a parameter for an argument and we get the string in all uppercase. Similarly,
let's say we have another string with some spaces in the beginning and at the end. And how do we
remove those extra spaces for that we call the trim function and that removes the extra spaces.
So a function takes in an input such as the string Helm in this example, and processes it and gives
us an output in the desired format. In this case, it helps transform data from one format to another.
So what's it got to do with Helm? If you've been discussing how Helm uses the files available under
the templates directory and combines them with the information available in the release, the
values.yaml file, and the chart details to create the final version of the manifest files on
Kubernetes. So the template directory values.image.repository gets translated into the
value from the values.yaml file, which happens to be nginx. So in this lecture, we will focus
purely on what's within the template directive. Now within the double curly brackets, as with
programming languages, functions in Helm help transform data from one format to another. Say
for example, we would like to convert nginx into uppercase without changing the value defined in
the values.yaml file, we could call the upper function in the template directive by adding the
name of the function upper like this before we provide the repository name. And that converts
the value to uppercase in the generated manifest file. Now in this case, upper is the function name
and values.image.repository is the argument. This function has one argument.
Another example would be to add a quote around the text. For this, use the quote function. And
this adds a quote around the text nginx in the generated manifest file. The replace function
replaces a character with another, in this case replaces x with a y. And note that in this case,
the replace function takes additional arguments, x is the string to look for and y is the string
to replace it with. So this function has a total of three arguments, the details about arguments,
a function takes can be found in the Helm documentation pages. So make sure to always
refer to that while working with each function. Another example is to shuffle the characters
using the shuffle function. Now, of course, you wouldn't want to use these functions with image
names, because after all, you don't want to shuffle an image name. And these are just examples. And
these are just a few of the many string functions available in Helm, a comprehensive list can be
found in the documentation pages. And you'll work with some of these in the upcoming labs. So what
we just saw are string functions. Apart from those, there are other types of functions such as
cryptographic or security-related functions for working with dates, dictionaries or less
Kubernetes-related functions, network-related functions, type conversion, regex, URL, etc.
A full list of supported functions can be found in the Helm documentation pages that are available
at this URL. So back to our problem of adding a default value for the image, if it's not specified,
as we discussed, if the value is not passed through the command line, or is not present in
the values.yaml file, then it won't be present in the generated manifest file as well.
We can add a function called default before the image repository variable,
and specify a default value of nginx. Note that the value always has to be within a quote.
So anything that's not in quotes, is considered a variable. And so it might complain that NGINX
is not available. So in this case, where since NGINX is the string that which has to be the
default value, we put it in quotes. So this function will result in the resulting deployment
file to always have a default image name of NGINX. Well, that's all for now. I will see you in the
next one.